---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome to Student Discussion Group @IMSc!"
date:   2017-08-13 18:52:21 -0500
---

We are planning to restart our weekly discussion meetings on Condensed
Matter Physics and Biological Physics with the topic - *Stochastic Thermodynamics*. 
The initial set of talks will be given by [Rajesh Singh](https://rajeshrinet.github.io/)
and then it will be followed up by other speakers. Rajesh will start by discussing the 
following review article:  
* Seifert, Udo. [“Stochastic thermodynamics, fluctuation theorems and molecular machines.”](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0034-4885/75/12/126001/meta) Reports on Progress in Physics 75.12 (2012): 126001.
  
To quote from the article:

> Stochastic thermodynamics as reviewed here systematically provides a framework for
> extending the notions of classical thermodynamics such as work, heat and entropy production
> to the level of individual trajectories of well-defined non-equilibrium ensembles. It applies
> whenever a non-equilibrium process is still coupled to one (or several) heat bath(s) of constant
> temperature. Paradigmatic systems are single colloidal particles in time-dependent laser traps,
> polymers in external flow, enzymes and molecular motors in single molecule assays, small
> biochemical networks and thermoelectric devices involving single electron transport.

  
In recent years, stochastic thermodynamics has attracted a lot of attention in various branches of statistical physics [1-4]. We plan to systematically discuss these topics over the course of our meetings.
  
Please let us know if you would like to join our mailing list.


